CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Climate Connect

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Climate Connect!

Table of Contents:

1. [Feature Requests](#feature-requests)
1. [Bug Reports](#bug-reports)
1. [Pull Requests](#pull-requests)
    1. [Documentation](#documentation)
1. [Contact](#contact)

## Feature Requests
Feature requests should be reported in the [Climate Connect issue tracker](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/issues). To avoid duplicates, please make sure to check existing issues.

## Bug Reports
Bug reports should be reported in the [Climate Connect issue tracker](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/issues).

To report a bug follow these guideline.

1. Describe the issue: Fill in a concise description of what went wrong
1. Steps to recreate: List every step you took that led to the unexpected result.
1. Expected result: Fill in what you would have expected after the last step in "Steps to recreate"
1. Actual result: Explain what actually happened
1. Link: Please provide a link to this issue.

## Pull Requests
If you are looking for a place to start contributing to Climate Connect, take a look at the [good first issues](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/projects/7?card_filter_query=label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and the [beginner level](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22beginner+level+issue%22) issues.

### Documentation
Code should be documented where appropriate. The general `python` and `javascript` rules can be followed for formatting.

## Contact
If there are any outstanding questions about contributing to Climate Connect, they can be asked on the [Climate Connect issue tracker](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/issues). 

For a more immediate and direct form of communication, please tag core contributors @positiveimpact and @ddhanesha on an issue.

Commit message:

Added rules for creating pull requests.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Climate Connect

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Climate Connect!

Table of Contents:

1. [Feature Requests](#feature-requests)
1. [Bug Reports](#bug-reports)
1. [Pull Requests](#pull-requests)
    1. [Documentation](#documentation)
1. [Contact](#contact)

## Feature Requests
Feature requests should be reported in the [Climate Connect issue tracker](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/issues). To avoid duplicates, please make sure to check existing issues.

## Bug Reports
Bug reports should be reported in the [Climate Connect issue tracker](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/issues).

To report a bug follow these guideline.

1. Describe the issue: Fill in a concise description of what went wrong
1. Steps to recreate: List every step you took that led to the unexpected result.
1. Expected result: Fill in what you would have expected after the last step in "Steps to recreate"
1. Actual result: Explain what actually happened
1. Link: Please provide a link to this issue.

## Pull Requests
If you are looking for a place to start contributing to Climate Connect, take a look at the [good first issues](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/projects/7?card_filter_query=label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and the [beginner level](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22beginner+level+issue%22) issues.

When creating a pull request follow these guidelines.

1. Add concise description about pull requests.
1. Add detailed steps to for testing a feature or bug.
1. If there is code unrelated to feature or a bug in pull request, please list all changes.

### Documentation
Code should be documented where appropriate. The general `python` and `javascript` rules can be followed for formatting.

## Contact
If there are any outstanding questions about contributing to Climate Connect, they can be asked on the [Climate Connect issue tracker](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/issues). 

For a more immediate and direct form of communication, please tag core contributors @positiveimpact and @ddhanesha on an issue.
