README.md, before:

# Climate Connect

The code for https://climateconnect.earth.

## Pre-steps

### Postgres

Create a local Postgres database with your own username and password. You will connect to this for your local backend project.

* Create a new superuser
* Alter your new user's password
* Create a new database 

Supply these values to your local `backend/.backend_env`.


### Docker

We use Docker to run the local Redis server. See the [Docker install docs](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) if you don't have it.

Make sure to install docker-ce, docker-ce-cli, containerd.io, and docker-compose.

## Get Started

We use Python/Django for our backend and Next.js for the frontend.

First, create a Python virtual environment and start it

```sh
python3 -m venv climateconnect_env
cd climateconnect_env
source bin/activate
```

Then clone the GitHub repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect
```

### Backend

After you've cloned the repository, we can set up the local Redis server and backend.

Note: we use Python 3, so for all instructions we insume `python` means `python3`.

#### First Time Setup

1.  Go to backend directory: `cd backend`
1.  Run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install all backend libraries.
1.  Create `.backend_env` to set environment variables.
    - You can find up-to-date sample env variables in [`backend/local-env-setup.md`](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/blob/master/backend/local-env-setup.md).
    - For the [Django `SECRET_KEY`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY), run `openssl rand -base64 32` to create a 32 char random secret.
1.  Run `python manage.py migrate` to run Django migrations.
    - Note: This command is used for when you first start, or whenever you are adding or updating database models.
1.  Create supersuer using `python manage.py createsuperuser`
    - You can then access your admin panel via <API_URL>/admin/

#### Continual Development

1.  Ensure Docker is running and then run `sudo docker-compose up`. This will start a Redis server on Docker.
1.  Ensure the Postgres server is running.
1.  Run server using `python manage.py runserver`.
1.  Run Celery using `celery -A climateconnect_main worker -l INFO`

#### Creating and Removing Test Data
* If test data is needed, run this command: `python manage.py create_test_data --number_of_rows 4`
* If you need to wipe your local database and start over:
  `$ sudo -u postgres psql`
  ```sql
  postgres-# \connect $DATABASE_NAME
  $DATABASE_NAME-# \dt
  $DATABASE_NAME-# DROP SCHEMA public CASCADE;
  $DATABASE_NAME-# CREATE SCHEMA public;
  $DATABASE_NAME-# \q;
  ```

  You will then need to run `python manage.py migrate` and `python manage.py createsuperuser` again after doing so.

#### Testing

If you want to run the test suite, use:

```sh
python manage.py test
```

Run a specific test file or test class:

```sh
python manage.py test <file_path> or <file_path + class_name>
```

### Frontend

1. `cd frontend`
1. `yarn install` to download all npm packages
1. Add a `.env` file for frontend environment variables. You can find variables you need to set in [`/frontend/next.config.js/`](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/blob/master/frontend/next.config.js)

  For local development, use the following contents for `.env`:
  ```sh
    API_HOST="localhost"
    API_URL="http://127.0.0.1:8000"
    BASE_URL_HOST=""
    SOCKET_URL="ws://api.climateconnect.earth"
  ```
1. `yarn dev` to start developing

## To Deploy

### Frontend

#### Option 1: GitHub Actions

1. Use GitHub actions to push to a server. A deploy file can be found in `.github/workflows`

#### Option 2: Manually

1. `cd frontend`
2. `yarn --production`
3. `yarn build`
4. `node server.js` OR `next start`

### Backend

1. Make sure your `ENVIRONMENT` env variable is set to `production`
2. Follow steps 1-5 of the "Getting started
   locally - backend" (above in this file)

Commit message:

Add thin wrapper on top of react-timeago's dateFormatter to support desired dates (#425)
* docs: readme updates

* docs: local-env update

* chore: add Makefile

* docs: readme

* chore: alphabetize package.json

* chore: bump prettier

* docs: PR feedback

* chore(*): update makefile

* docs(*): whitespace in local-env

* chore(*): add makefile steps

* WIP

* fix(*): whitespace

* docs(*): note in readme on postgres

* fix(*): final list item styling

* chore(*): delete cruft

* docs(*): readme fix

* chore(*): delete cruft

* chore(*): pr review

* chore(*): cruft removal

* fix(*): misc

* fix(*): stub filter

* feat(*): WIP: filtering based on state in browse

* fix(*): cruft

* chore(*): cruft

* chore(*): drop console.log

* fix(*): pages/browse

* chore(*): drop console.log

* chore(*): drop console.log

* refactor(*): update filtering and serach

* fix(*): optional chaining bugs; use spinner

* refactor(*): update loading spinner with loading prop

* refactor(*): search handling

* chore(*): alias makefile

* refactor(*): search refactor

* chore(*): cruft

* fix(*): cruft

* refactor(*): restore and alpha imports

* fix(*): order_by bug; console.warning

* docs(*): PR template

* docs(*): tweak pr template

* fix(*): reference error

* fix(*): console.error nested a tags

* fix(*): WIP: updates

* fix(*): dupe import

* chore(*): update Makefile

* fix(*): add time offset to test data

* feat(*): timeago foramtting feature

* fix(*): test

* fix(*): makefile

* fix(*): create test data

* fix(*): merge

* fix(*): lint issues

* chore(*): update

* docs(*): comment

* fix(*): test

* chore(*): cruft

* docs(*): comment

* fix(*): lint; drop unused ref

* fix(*): elapsed bug

* refactor(*): test data

* docs(*): cruft

* Update frontend/src/utils/formatting.js

* docs(*): readme.md

* docs(*): clarify comment

README.md, after:

# Climate Connect

The code for https://climateconnect.earth.

## Pre-steps

### Postgres

Create a local Postgres database with your own username and password. You will connect to this for your local backend project.

- Create a new superuser
- Alter your new user's password
- Create a new database

Supply these values to your local `backend/.backend_env`.

### Docker

We use Docker to run the local Redis server. See the [Docker install docs](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) if you don't have it.

Make sure to install docker-ce, docker-ce-cli, containerd.io, and docker-compose.

## Get Started

We use Python/Django for our backend and Next.js for the frontend.

First, create a Python virtual environment and start it

```sh
python3 -m venv climateconnect_env
cd climateconnect_env
source bin/activate
```

Then clone the GitHub repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect
```

### Backend

After you've cloned the repository, we can set up the local Redis server and backend.

Note: we use Python 3, so for all instructions we insume `python` means `python3`.

#### First Time Setup

1.  Go to backend directory: `cd backend`
1.  Run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install all backend libraries.
1.  Create `.backend_env` to set environment variables.
    - You can find up-to-date sample env variables in [`backend/local-env-setup.md`](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/blob/master/backend/local-env-setup.md).
    - For the [Django `SECRET_KEY`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY), run `openssl rand -base64 32` to create a 32 char random secret.
1.  Run `python manage.py migrate` to run Django migrations.
    - Note: This command is used for when you first start, or whenever you are adding or updating database models.
1.  Create supersuer using `python manage.py createsuperuser`
    - You can then access your admin panel via <API_URL>/admin/

#### Continual Development

1.  Ensure Docker is running and then run `sudo docker-compose up`. This will start a Redis server on Docker.
1.  Ensure the Postgres server is running.
1.  Run server using `python manage.py runserver`.
1.  Run Celery using `celery -A climateconnect_main worker -l INFO`

#### Creating and Removing Test Data

- If test data is needed, run this command: `python manage.py create_test_data --number_of_rows 4`
- If you need to wipe your local database and start over:
  `$ sudo -u postgres psql`

  ```sql
  postgres-# \connect $DATABASE_NAME
  $DATABASE_NAME-# \dt
  $DATABASE_NAME-# DROP SCHEMA public CASCADE;
  $DATABASE_NAME-# CREATE SCHEMA public;
  $DATABASE_NAME-# \q;
  ```

  You will then need to run `python manage.py migrate` and `python manage.py createsuperuser` again after doing so.

#### Testing

If you want to run the test suite, use:

```sh
python manage.py test
```

Run a specific test file or test class:

```sh
python manage.py test <file_path> or <file_path + class_name>
```

### Frontend

1. `cd frontend`
1. `yarn install` to download all npm packages
1. Add a `.env` file for frontend environment variables. You can find variables you need to set in [`/frontend/next.config.js/`](https://github.com/climateconnect/climateconnect/blob/master/frontend/next.config.js)

For local development, use the following contents for `.env`:

```sh
  API_HOST="localhost"
  API_URL="http://127.0.0.1:8000"
  BASE_URL_HOST=""
  SOCKET_URL="ws://api.climateconnect.earth"
```

1. `yarn dev` to start developing

#### Testing

We use Jest as our testing framework write to tests for the FE code. Write
test files with `.test.js` and execute them directly with

```sh
yarn jest path/to/testfile.test.js
```

See npm scripts in `package.json`.

## To Deploy

### Frontend

#### Option 1: GitHub Actions

1. Use GitHub actions to push to a server. A deploy file can be found in `.github/workflows`

#### Option 2: Manually

1. `cd frontend`
2. `yarn --production`
3. `yarn build`
4. `node server.js` OR `next start`

### Backend

1. Make sure your `ENVIRONMENT` env variable is set to `production`
2. Follow steps 1-5 of the "Getting started
   locally - backend" (above in this file)
